#summary FreeBSD ZFS ARC Summary Perl Script
#labels FreeBSD,SunOS,Solaris,OpenSolaris,CuddleTech,Featured,ZFS,Memory,Statistics,Download,Perl,Summary

= News =

Mon Jul 12 22:50:39 UTC 2010
  As of this date there has been more than *800* downloads of the arc_summary.pl script for FreeBSD and a large number of unaccounted downloads from the repository.

Sat Apr 24 21:10:57 UTC 2010
  At some point today there has been a total of *501* downloads of arc_summary.pl.

= Introduction =

This perl script is used to prep a report for user review with the contents being that of the ZFS ARC Statistics contained in sysctl kstats MIBs.

  Quoting the original author of the script for Sun based systems:

  While ARC is an amazing achievement its memory consumption raises doubts and questions in many administrators and users who view memory as a precious commodity. The Kstat facility provides access to a variety of ARC counters, but interpretting these properly is complex and non-intuative in their raw form, without spending several hours in the arc.c code. The purpose of arc_summary.pl is to provide a historical analysis of the ZFS ARC.

This script is still work in progress.
  * Currently [http://jhell.googlecode.com/files/arc_summary.pl arc_summary.pl] tries to make use of all kstats that are available.
  * It includes some specific system information such as uname, uptime & date in a header.
  * Spills relevant sysctl MIBs at the bottom of the report.
  * Includes kernel memory usage.
  * Has L2 ARC kstats.
  * Current with sysctl MIBs as of ZFS v14. ( Please report new sysctls [mailto:jhell@dataix.net here])

== Download ==

  || *Name*     || *Example*     || *Description*                                  ||
  || [http://jhell.googlecode.com/files/arc_summary.pl Stable] || [http://code.google.com/p/jhell/wiki/arc_summary_stable_example Output] || 8.1-STABLE or lower without ZFSv15 patch. ||
  # [http://code.google.com/p/jhell/source/browse/base#base/head/scripts/zfs/arc_summary Development Version] Geared toward 8.1-STABLE or greater with ZFSv15 patch.

|| *Year* || *Temperature (low)* || *Temperature (high)* ||
|| 1900 || -10 || 25 ||
|| 1910 || -15 || 30 ||
|| 1920 || -10 || 32 ||
|| 1930 || _N/A_ || _N/A_ ||
|| 1940 || -2 || 40 ||

== Links ==

  # [http://www.FreeBSD.org/ FreeBSD.org Website]
  # [http://wiki.FreeBSD.org/ FreeBSD.org WiKi]
  # [http://www.sun.com/ Sun Microsystems]
  # [http://www.opensolaris.org/ OpenSolaris]

=== Updates ===

Revision 19:
  * Some reformatting has been done to accommodate for the removal of the header and sysctl MIBs.
  * The following editable variables have been included for convenience:
  {{{
  my $useheader = 1;	# Change to 0 to disable FreeBSD header.
  my $usetunable = 1;	# Change to 0 to disable sysctl MIB spill at bottom.
  }}}
